README.md, before:

# How To Build a Laravel + MongoDB Back End Service 

This code was writting in conjunction with [this article](https://www.mongodb.com/developer/languages/php/laravel-mongodb-tutorial/?utm_campaign=devrel).


## Prerequisites
You'll need the following installed on your computer to follow along with this tutorial:

- A MongoDB Atlas cluster 
  - [Create a free cluster](https://www.mongodb.com/try?utm_campaign=devrel) and [load the MongoDB sample data](https://www.mongodb.com/basics/sample-database?utm_campaign=devrel).
- A code editor of your choice. 
  - We suggeest [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download). Check the optional [MongoDB for VS Code](https://www.mongodb.com/products/vs-code?utm_campaign=devrel) extension.

The article mentions several ways to get a Laravel development environment up and running. 

## .env file 

Not included in this repo is the .env file that contains the MongoDB connection string with the username / password. You'll have to make a cope of the .env.example file and add this variable: 

`DB_URI=`

The complete URI looks like this:

`DB_URI=mongodb+srv://USERNAME:PASSWORD@clustername.subdomain.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true&w=majority`

# Disclaimer

Use at your own risk; not a supported MongoDB product

Commit message:

Laravel is now up and running with docker
- docker  .env PHP mount points modified. For laravel, serving from /public/ should be done at the NGINX level. PHP still needs access to everything that is in /src/
- Renamed the nginx php.conf file into nginx-webserver.conf
- changed nginx-webserver.conf to match more closely the official Laravel settings. The previous config did not work with the Laravel Routes
- in the php Dockerfile, added error files init for xdebug and php-errors
- made small changes in xdebug.ini (php container) to get rid of unwanted "error" messages such as Client is not listening. NOT TESTED WITH ACTUAL STEp-DEBUG yet.

Next: try devcontainer
Next: try localhost step-debug

README.md, after:

# How To Build a Laravel + MongoDB Back End Service 

This code was writting in conjunction with [this article](https://www.mongodb.com/developer/languages/php/laravel-mongodb-tutorial/?utm_campaign=devrel).


## Prerequisites
You'll need the following installed on your computer to follow along with this tutorial:

- A MongoDB Atlas cluster 
  - [Create a free cluster](https://www.mongodb.com/try?utm_campaign=devrel) and [load the MongoDB sample data](https://www.mongodb.com/basics/sample-database?utm_campaign=devrel).
- A code editor of your choice. 
  - We suggeest [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download). Check the optional [MongoDB for VS Code](https://www.mongodb.com/products/vs-code?utm_campaign=devrel) extension.

The article mentions several ways to get a Laravel development environment up and running. 

## .env file 

#### Application key

Laravel might ask to generate a new application key. You can do it by running this command in the laravel project folder. 

`php artisan key:generate`

#### MongoDB connection string

Not included in this repo is the Laravel .env file that contains the MongoDB connection string with the username / password. You'll have to make a cope of the .env.example file and add this variable: 

`DB_URI=`

The complete URI looks like this:

`DB_URI=mongodb+srv://USERNAME:PASSWORD@clustername.subdomain.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true&w=majority`

# Troubleshooting


# Disclaimer

Use at your own risk; not a supported MongoDB product
